[Post] min(), max(), clamp() (#4024)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/min-max-clamp/index.md

---
title: 'min(), max(), and clamp(): Three Logical CSS Functions to Use Today'
subhead: Learn how to control element sizing, maintain proper spacing, and implement fluid typography using these well-supported CSS functions.
authors:
  - una
date: 2020-10-14
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Set of tools on a desk. Via @yer_a_wizard on Unsplash.
description: Min, max, and clamp provide some powerful CSS capabilities that enable more responsive styling with fewer liens of code. This post goes over how to control element sizing, maintain proper spacing, and implement fluid typography using these well-supported CSS math functions.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - css

>   - chrome79

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - layout
```

When it comes to flexible and fluid typography, controlled element resizing, and maintaining proper spacing, `min()`, `max()`, and `clamp()` can help.

## Background

The math functions, `calc()`, `min()`, `max()`, and `clamp()` allow mathematical expressions with addition (+), subtraction (-), multiplication (*), and division (/) to be used as component values — [[CSS Values And Units Level 4]](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-values-4/#calc-notation). 

Safari was the first to [ship](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=167000) the complete set of functions in April 2019, with Chromium following later that year in version 79. This year, with Firefox [75](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1519519) shipping, we now have browser parity for `min()`, `max()`, and `clamp()` in all evergreen browsers.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" src="./caniuse.png" alt="" />

Reviewer 2: Empty alt text.

Author: I left this empty because the `figcaption` describes the image

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    <a href="https://caniuse.com/?search=min%20max%20clamp">Caniuse</a> support table.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Usage

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/min-demo.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Showing how the min() function selects a value based on a list of options and its parent. <a href="https://codepen.io/una/pen/rNeGNVL">See Demo on Codepen.</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> You can use `min()`, `max()`, and `clamp()` on the right hand side of any CSS expression where it would make sense. For `min()` and `max()`, you provide an argument list of values, and the browser determines which one is either the smallest or largest, respectively. For example, in the case of: `min(1rem, 50%, 10vw)`, the browser would calculate which of these relative units is the smallest, and use that value as the actual value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use `min()`, `max()`, and `clamp()` on the right hand side of any CSS expression where it would make sense. For `min()` and `max()`, you provide an argument list of values, and the browser determines which one is either the smallest or largest, respectively. For example, in the case of: `min(1rem, 50%, 10vw)`, the browser calculates which of these relative units is the smallest, and uses that value as the actual value.
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/max-demo.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Showing how the max() function selects a value based on a list of options and its parent. <a href="https://codepen.io/una/pen/RwaZXqR">See Demo on Codepen.</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The `max()` function selects the largest value from a list of comma-separated expressions.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/clamp-demo.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Showing how the clamp() function selects a value based on a list of options and its parent. <a href="https://codepen.io/una/pen/bGpoGdJ">See Demo on Codepen.</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> For `clamp()`, the author enters three values: a minimum value, ideal value (from which to calculate), and maximum value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use `clamp()` enter three values: a minimum value, ideal value (from which to calculate), and maximum value.
```

Any of these functions can be used anywhere a `<length>`, `<frequency>`, `<angle>`, `<time>`, `<percentage>`, `<number>`, or `<integer>` is allowed. You can use these on their own (i.e. `font-size: max(0.5vw, 50%, 2rem)`), in conjunction with `calc()` (i.e. `font-size: max(calc(0.5vw - 1em), 2rem)`),  or composed (i.e. `font-size: max(min(0.5vw, 1em), 2rem)`). 

> <aside>
> When using a calculation inside of a `min()`, `max()`, or `clamp()` function, you can nix the `calc()`. For example, writing `font-size: max(calc(0.5vw - 1em), 2rem)` would be the same as `font-size: max(0.5vw - 1em, 2rem)`.
> </aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
When using a calculation inside of a `min()`, `max()`, or `clamp()` function, you can nix the `calc()`. For example, writing `font-size: max(calc(0.5vw - 1em), 2rem)` would be the same as `font-size: max(0.5vw - 1em, 2rem)`.
{% endAside %}
```
This wasn't displaying correctly because 1) you can't use Markdown inside of HTML and 2) we don't use the built-in aside element, we have a [custom component](https://web.dev/handbook/web-dev-components/#note-asides)

To recap:

- `min(<value-list>)`: selects the smallest (most negative) value from a list of comma-separated expressions
- `max(<value-list>)`: selects the largest (most positive) value from a list of comma-separated expressions
- `clamp(<min>, <ideal>, <max>)`: clamps a value between an upper and lower bound, based on a set ideal value

Let's take a look at some examples.

> ## The Perfect Width

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The perfect width
```

According to [The Elements of Typographic Style](http://webtypography.net/2.1.2#:~:text=%E2%80%9CAnything%20from%2045%20to%2075,is%2040%20to%2050%20characters.%E2%80%9D) by Robert Bringhurst, “anything from 45 to 75 characters is widely regarded as a satisfactory length of line for a single-column page set in a serifed text face in a text size.” 

> To ensure that your text blocks are not narrower than 45 characters or wider than 75 characters, you can write some CSS using `clamp()` and the `ch` unit:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that your text blocks are not narrower than 45 characters or wider than 75 characters, use `clamp()` and the `ch` unit:
```

```css
p {
  width: clamp(45ch, 50%, 75ch);
}
```

This allows for the browser to determine the width of the paragraph. It will set the width to 50%, unless 50% is smaller than `45ch`, at which point `45ch` will be selected, and visa versa for if 50% is wider than `75ch`. In this demo, the card itself is getting clamped:

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/clamp-width.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Using the clamp() function to limit a minimum and maximum width. <a href="https://codepen.io/una/pen/QWyLxaL">See Demo on Codepen.</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> You could also break this up with just the `min()` or `max()` function as well. If you want the element to always be at `50%` width, and not exceed `75ch` in width (i.e. on larger screens), you could write: `width: min(75ch, 50%);`.  This essentially sets a “max” size by using the `min()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You could break this up with just the `min()` or `max()` function. If you want the element to always be at `50%` width, and not exceed `75ch` in width (i.e. on larger screens), write: `width: min(75ch, 50%);`.  This essentially sets a “max” size by using the `min()` function.
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/max-width.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Using the clamp() function to limit a minimum and maximum width.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

By the same token, you can ensure a minimum size for legible text using the `max()` function. This would look like: `width: max(45ch, 50%);`. Here, the browser selects whichever is larger, `45ch` or `50%`, meaning the element must be at *least* `45ch` or larger.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/min-width.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Using the clamp() function to limit a minimum and maximum width.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ## Padding Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Padding management
```

Using the same concept as above, where the `min()` function can set a “max” value and `max()` sets a “min” value, you can use `max()` to set a minimum padding size. This example comes from [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/using-max-for-an-inner-element-max-width/), where reader Caluã de Lacerda Pataca shared this idea:

> The idea is to enable an element to have additional padding at larger screen sizes, but maintain a minimum padding at smaller screen sizes, particularly on the inline padding. To achieve this, you can use `calc()` and subtract the minimum padding from either side: `calc((100vw - var(--contentWidth)) / 2)`, *or* you can use max: `max(2rem, 50vw - var(--contentWidth) / 2)`. All together it looks like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The idea is to enable an element to have additional padding at larger screen sizes, but maintain a minimum padding at smaller screen sizes, particularly on the inline padding. To achieve this, use `calc()` and subtract the minimum padding from either side: `calc((100vw - var(--contentWidth)) / 2)`, *or* use max: `max(2rem, 50vw - var(--contentWidth) / 2)`. All together it looks like:
```

```css
footer {
  padding: var(--blockPadding) max(2rem, 50vw - var(--contentWidth) / 2);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/min-padding.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Setting a minimum padding for a component using the max() function. <a href="https://codepen.io/chriscoyier/pen/qBZqNKa">See Demo on Codepen.</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Fluid Typography

In order to enable [fluid typography](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2016/05/fluid-typography/), [Mike Riethmeuller](https://twitter.com/mikeriethmuller) popularized a technique that uses the `calc()` function to set a minimum font size, maximum font size, and allow for scaling from the min to the max.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/min-max-clamp/fliud-type.mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Creating fluid typography with clamp(). <a href="https://codepen.io/una/pen/ExyYXaN">See Demo on Codepen.</a>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> Utilizing `clamp()`, you can now write this more clearly. Rather than requiring a complex string, you can let the browser do the work for you. You can set the minimum acceptable font size (for example, `1.5rem` for a title, maximum size (i.e. `3rem`) and ideal size of `5vw`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With `clamp()`, you can write this more clearly. Rather than requiring a complex string, the browser can do the work for you. Set the minimum acceptable font size (for example, `1.5rem` for a title, maximum size (i.e. `3rem`) and ideal size of `5vw`. 
```

Now, we get typography that scales with the viewport width of the page until it reaches the limiting minimum and maximum values, in a much more succinct line of code: 

```css
p {
  clamp(1.5rem, 5vw, 3rem);
}
```

## Conclusion

> The CSS math functions, `min()`, `max()`, and `clamp()` are very powerful, relatively well supported, and could be just what you're looking for to help you build responsive UIs. For more resources, check out:

Reviewer: Relatively well supported? In the intro we said they're supported in all browsers. Can we update this (or the intro) to make sure our messaging is consistent?
